Hi, it's good to see you. Good to see
you again.
It's funny because I just got
performance review.
>> You get a performance
>> I get a performance review and I just
got it. I can tell you what my
performance review says.
>> In most countries in the world, the
brand of Duolingo is really equated with
language learning. So, when somebody
thinks about language learning, they
just think of Duolingo.
Because of AI,
I really believe that the way people
learn is going to fundamentally change
over the next few years.
>> Sure.
>> Um it just is the case that with apps,
you can teach a lot better. So, I made a
decision
>> Mhm.
>> a few months ago that we were going to
prioritize teaching better and user
growth
over making money.
I made that decision.
>> That's big decision.
>> Yes, it is a big decision, especially
because we're a publicly traded company.
I knew that making this decision was not
going to be popular in the stock market,
and it wasn't popular in the stock
market.
>> Sure, for sure. Yeah.
>> And so, our stock has gone down quite a
bit. You know, this was on purpose.
Because because we want to invest in the
future
>> Mhm.
>> rather than trying to make as much money
as possible in the next 3 months.
>> Is that like to gain more users, to get
more learning data, so you can
>> to get more learning data so that we can
teach better, but it's also One of the
things we've noticed is that whenever we
get a user, we're very good at keeping
them there because the streak is there
or the gamification. So, we would just
like to have a a much larger user base.
Over time, we will make more revenue
that way if we have a larger user base.
>> In the long term, yeah, I see.
>> Generally, we've concentrated on
teaching better, growing users, and
revenue. Next year, we'll probably go
back to all three, but this year we're
mainly concentrating on teaching better
and growing users. It has been tough
because the stock market has not been
very friendly to us, but other than
that, the company keeps growing very
very fast.
>> You said like next year, you're going to
do the three pillar thing to get the
monetization back. What's the logic
behind Is there something specific you
do this year or
>> Um Well, first of all, one thing to
clarify, it doesn't mean that next year
we're going to start charging. We're not
going to give features for this year and
then start charging for them next year.
No, no. Whenever we give a feature for
free, it'll stay for free forever. But,
we we will concentrate a little more on
monetization next year than this year.
As a company, we understand that it is
important that we also make money. I
mean, we have to pay people salaries,
you know, we have to make plushies.
We have to do things.
>> Got you. Yeah, it's just like right now
getting users are more prioritized.
Yeah, got you. I see.
I'm going to show you something.
>> Okay, you're going to show me something.
Okay.
>> Nothing scary. Nothing scary. This is my
streak.
>> 891 days.
>> Actually, since we chatted last time, I
started languages using Duolingo. I
think that's probably
>> So we talked last time 891 days ago.
>> Probably, yeah, around that. Yeah.
And you're an education company, and you
have a mascot,
>> Mhm.
>> which is a green bird. Sometimes he goes
crazy, right? This thing is like a
culture iconic right now for Duolingo.
I'm just wondering at the beginning, is
it intentionally designed or it's kind
of grow organically?
>> It was both. We intentionally added a
mascot because I always thought that a
mascot would get people to come back. Oh
my god.
He goes crazy.
Oh, hi. Okay, hi Duo.
He's going crazy.
Um we've always known that having a
mascot is something that gets people to
want to learn more. So we put it in the
first version of the app had the mascot,
and it was there, but what happened more
organically is
his personality was in part invented by
the internet.
>> Oh, it's by the internet. You didn't
design it personally.
>> Parts of it. We definitely designed that
it was a green owl. But it didn't have
much of a personality. The icon for the
app is the face of the owl. So we
decided that whenever the app sends you
a notification, operating systems always
put the icon of the app right next to
it. So whenever you get a notification,
the icon is right next to it and it
happened to be the face of the owl.
>> Uh-huh.
>> So people started thinking that the
notifications were coming from the owl,
not from the app. And so they started
describing the personality of the
notifications to the owl. At first the
notifications were very simple, but we
started doing more interesting things
with the notifications. For example, at
some point we added a notification, if
you didn't come back for a few days, the
notification said, "These reminders
don't seem to be working. I'm going to
stop sending them for now."
>> It's like have some personality, not a
just a notification.
>> then people on the internet started
saying, "Oh, the owl is
passive-aggressive."
>> The owl.
>> The owl really will go through great
lengths to do it. So then they started
making memes about how the owl really
will go through great lengths to get you
to come back and do your lesson. Like
the owl will kidnap your family
so that you do a lesson. It turns out
that for characters to be good
characters, what they need is they need
to have something they really want. And
for them to be a good character, the
thing they really want, there must be an
obstacle for them to get it. In the case
of the owl, all the owl wants is for you
to do your lesson.
>> Uh-huh.
>> And the obstacle is that you're lazy.
>> Uh so you figured people like this kind
of personality and then you
intentionally designed the owl to
>> Yes. Whenever the memes on the internet
would appear, we would look at it and we
would say, "Oh, we should do more of
that."
>> Uh-huh.
>> Because people like that.
>> I see. So it's kind of like a iteration
as well.
>> That's right.
>> The team sent me this this plushy.
>> Mhm.
>> It's quite big.
>> Oh, that one.
Oh, that one. When that was first
suggested to me, I was a little No, I
didn't say no. I was a little
>> concerned
>> Yeah, a little concerned, but my my
chief of staff, it's a woman named
Molly, she wouldn't stop laughing for
like a minute that we were going to have
a boyfriend pillow. And so I thought
this has got to be a good idea. Some of
the marketing campaigns I think have
pushed the boundary a little too much
and we've sometimes said no.
>> It happened before, right? Did it ever
happened
>> We've said no to a few things. I've said
no to a few things. We never actually
did this and I don't think they would
have gone through with this one but
somebody suggested that the owl should
have an OnlyFans page.
>> Oh.
>> I said no.
I'm like, please don't do that. Each of
the different local teams has to be
trying to push the envelope but we try
very hard. Again,
>> is a boundary.
>> Yeah, look, ultimately we want to be a
family brand. Internally we say the
words that we use is wholesome unhinged.
Wholesome just means that it is like
it's not overly sexualized, that it is
warm, family, not not overly sexualized.
Unhinged is that it's crazy. So it's
like crazy but safe. We don't want to do
anything that will turn people off. And
we don't want it to be the case that
parents tell their kids to stop doing
Duolingo because Duolingo's on OnlyFans.
>> I see. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> I wanted to talk about your personal
development as a CEO since it's almost
like 2 and 1/2 years. Any personal
development of you like you as a CEO you
grow or managing the team?
>> Um
it's funny because I just got every year
I get a performance review.
>> You get a performance review.
>> review and I just got it.
>> From the board or
>> It's both the board and the people that
report to me. So the executive team and
the board come together and write me a
performance review.
Um I can tell you what my performance
review says.
>> Wow.
>> Uh I'm I'm I'm There's some stuff that
I'm good at but I will tell you the
things that I need to improve because
they've been the same things for a lot
of years. I'm just getting slowly better
but not a lot. Um probably the biggest
one is that I um
ultimately I'm conflict avoidant.
So I avoid conflict. If there's
something that I need to tell you
that
I know you're really not going to like.
>> Uh-huh.
>> It's very difficult for me to tell you.
I have a very hard time telling you
something you're not going to like. And
as a CEO, I sometimes have to tell you
things that you're not going to like.
For example, you're not doing a good
job. That is a That is a hard thing for
me to to do.
>> Uh-huh.
>> That's kind of the biggest thing that
I'm that I'm always being told. My
executive team has been working with me
for Most of them for like 10 years. So,
they know know me super well. By now,
they've learned to read me. They say
like "Oh, there's something you don't
like, but you're not telling me. So, can
you please just tell me?"
>> Oh.
>> But that is kind of the biggest thing
that I've that I have to get better at.
And I've been trying to get better at
it. So, I would say in the last 3 years,
I've gotten better at that.
>> Uh-huh.
>> But
I'm not yet perfect.
>> But is it better if you're familiar with
that person? You
>> Much better. You can be more straight.
Much better. After about 5 years.
>> After 5 years, that's a long time.
>> I get I get good at telling you. So, for
example, in this trip to China, we just
came with our chief product officer,
Jim. I have no problem telling him if
he's doing a bad job. I'm like, "Jim,
you're not doing a good job." So, I
don't have a problem, but it's because
I've worked with him for almost 10
years.
Um but if it's a new person
>> It's difficult for you to
have conflict.
>> not good. You know, in my time as a CEO,
I've had two or three people that when
I'm telling them something they don't
like, they start crying.
>> Oh, no.
>> That I am like, "Ugh."
It's really terrible.
>> I think in a lot of companies,
especially when it's large, there's
saying that you got to be straight with
the problem you're saying and just be
more straightforward. It's like a better
culture. What do you think of that and
>> agree with that.
>> you agree with that?
>> Yeah, I agree with that. And for me,
it's not hard to be straightforward if
it is about
a project
>> Uh-huh.
>> or about a problem.
>> About things itself.
>> Yeah. But about a person, I have a hard
time. So, if if I think it's going to
upset you about you
>> Oh.
>> then I have a hard time. But But it's if
it's just something like, "This is not
working, that is much much easier. But
like you you are not working, that's
very hard.
>> It is hard.
>> Yes, very hard for me.
>> Okay, I got you. Have you ever tested
your MBTI personality?
>> I have tested it, but I keep forgetting
what it is. I am I am an extrovert. I am
>> You're an extrovert.
>> I am.
>> Oh, okay. I thought you were introvert.
>> No, I am an extrovert, but I am shy,
which is different. I am shy with new
people, but I am an extrovert and I get
I get energy from people.
>> Okay.
>> And then I am also judging.
>> You're judging, okay.
>> Um oh, I'm more thinking than feeling.
>> You're more thinking than feeling.
>> Yes, but I'm but I'm judging.
>> to avoid conflict with people.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, interesting. How how would you
describe your character? Like you prefer
to be a product manager or teacher or a
manager or just a a tech genius or how
do you
>> I prefer to be a micromanager.
>> Oh, no.
Really?
>> Yes.
That's another thing that I have gotten
better at over time. It just turns out
that after about 100 employees, you
can't micromanage everybody.
>> For sure, yeah.
>> But if I could, I would.
>> When the team gets larger, since you
like micromanaging, do you feel it's
more difficult to manage or
>> I've gotten much better at it. I mean,
over the years. I now know
that in fact micromanaging in most cases
is not good. I now understand that, but
I still really want to. But I I stop
myself. I also have gotten a lot better
at knowing
when your executive team is really good,
you know that you can delegate most
things. So by now, I know whatever
problem there is, I just say you do it.
It's much better than than me doing
everything. Also, the people at least in
my executive team are better than me at
each of the things. For example, our
marketing person is much better than me
at marketing. Our product person is
better than me at product. Our
engineering person is better than me at
engineering. So I now know just
>> Give it to them.
>> Yeah, and it's much better. But I really
would like to do it myself.
>> Got you. Is it like to conquer something
with the joy yourself?
>> I just get pleasure from solving
problems. For me, happiness is solving
problems.
>> It's not the worryness about something
went wrong or
>> No, it's just it's really so I really
like
>> problems yourself.
>> Yes, and this is also another thing is
taking me years to learn this, but when
you have a significant other, like my
wife,
>> Uh-huh.
>> she sometimes has a a problem herself or
is not feeling great. My inclination is
to sit next to her and solve the problem
for her, tell her, "Here's what you need
to do."
I have learned it's much better to just
sit there and be like, "Tell me about
it."
And then say, "Mhm, that's really
tough."
Listen.
>> Listen. Uh
>> Listen matters more, right?
>> Yeah, emotional support.
>> Yes, that's
>> Did you have a lot of girlfriends before
that? Before marriage?
>> I'm too scared to even answer that
question at this point in time.
Please, no.
I love you, honey.
Mhm, you don't understand.
>> You have the handbook. The reason we
wrote it was so that you especially new
employees and potential employees could
see what it's like to work at Duolingo
and what the culture is like. So, the
main thing that the handbook has is five
principles. We explain each of the
principles and what's awesome about
these principles is that they're not
aspirational. They're actually what we
do.
>> Mhm.
>> It's not like a principle like be the
best. Like, you know, it's nothing like
that. So, for example, one of them is
take the long view.
Uh which is, you know, we want to have a
company that is around for 100 years.
Think that way as opposed to what's good
for tomorrow.
So, that's a big principle, probably the
most important one. Another one is make
it fun. So, throughout not only our
product should be fun, internally
working at Duolingo should be fun. So,
that's another important principle.
Another one is called ship it, which is
we really try not to sit there arguing
forever about whether something's a good
idea or a bad idea. They just make it
and do it. Another one is show, don't
tell. In many companies, the culture is
such that when you're presenting
something, first of all, you explain for
a really, really long time what you're
doing and half of that explanation is
how hard you worked. I did this and I
stayed up all night and whatever.
>> You don't care about that. Just deliver
the value, right?
>> show me what you did. Instead of the
whole story of how you
trials and tribulations about how you
got to there, just show me the thing.
So, that's another one. And then the
last one is raise the bar. Always just
try to do better than we did before. So,
those are the operating principles and
we had a whole We have a whole handbook
about, you know, different examples of
things we've done for each one of them.
>> That's kind of the culture of Duolingo.
>> Yeah, these these five really capture
the culture pretty well.
>> Very nice. Do you think um as the
company grows larger, is difficult to
preserve the value, preserve the
culture?
>> Um
yeah, but I think we've done a good job.
I think it is still true that certainly
these five things I think are are quite
true.
>> Quite true. Okay, that's good. I think a
lot of people may say Duolingo is good
as a game, but uh to truly master a
language is kind of difficult if you
only spend like 5 minutes a day.
>> Yeah, so a couple of things to say about
that. Um we have a lot of studies that
show that Duolingo is very good at
teaching. You can actually learn a
language and get to a a very fluent
level in Duolingo. So, it's very good at
teaching. However, there's a bit of a
misconception and it's exactly what you
said.
If you only learn for 5 minutes a day,
it's just going to take some time. That
is just a feature of the human brain. It
takes the human brain that long to get
good at a language. So, for example, our
entire French course to learn French on
Duolingo,
if you only do one lesson a day, which
is about 3 minutes, it takes 22 years to
learn it.
Uh
it works. It's just going to take 22
years. If you want to go faster, you
probably want to do more than one lesson
a day. So, for example, if you do two
lessons a day as opposed to one, that's
only 11 years. Yes.
>> That's like get to how I mean, how what
what what kind of level
>> That is a Duolingo score 130, which gets
the level there is a level in which you
can be good enough to communicate at
work. There may be some things out there
that tell you that you can learn a
language in 3 months. That's just not
true.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. If you want to
truly master a language, you got to
learn, right?
>> You got to spend the You got to spend
the hours. It's just There's no If the
languages are far apart, for example,
English and Chinese are far.
>> Yeah.
>> Then it takes longer. For example, if
you're native in Mandarin and you need
to learn Cantonese, that's much faster.
That's much faster. Similarly, if you're
native in English and you want to learn
Spanish, that's much faster. But far
apart languages, they just take longer.
>> Yeah, I checked my Duolingo score on
Spanish.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Uh it was only like 18, I guess, because
I only do like one course a day.
>> Okay, well
>> That's why I think
>> 18 18's getting to be pretty good. Okay,
you probably now know some Spanish.
>> Entry level, yeah. I can recognize some
words and at the airport and I can maybe
order a hamburger at McDonald's. Yeah.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. See, that's it It
starts becoming useful and and depending
on your score, so for example, a
Duolingo score, if you're at like 30,
you can really reliably order things at
a restaurant.
>> Oh.
>> Um if you're at, for example, 50, you
can read a short story in that language.
>> Yeah, at around 50. If you're around 90,
you can watch a TV show.
>> I see. I'm counting like how many years
I I need to get to that level.
>> more than one lesson a day. That's the
thing.
>> I'm going to work harder, yeah, for
sure.
>> to tell you, Spanish TV shows are very
good. They're um they're
uh there's this thing called telenovelas
in Spanish and they are
uh very emotionally manipulative.
>> Emotionally
>> They keep you watching because you're
you're they emotionally manipulate you.
>> Yeah, it's like TikTok.
>> Yeah, it's like TikTok, yeah.
>> I see. What are the areas Duolingo is
using AI right now?
>> Um practicing conversation, which we
talked about. Also, all of our content,
so whenever you're learning, there has
to be content that you're learning. It
used to be made by people. It is now
mostly made by AI. So, the content to
learn math, the content to learn chess,
all of that is is mainly made by AI.
Uh and that means that we go a lot
faster at generating content. So, for
example, 2 and 1/2 years ago
from Chinese, you could not learn all
the languages that you can today. And we
didn't even know if we were going to be
able to add all these languages from
Chinese because each one just required a
lot of effort. But now we just did it
much faster and it was not that
expensive to add all the content to
learn from Chinese because of AI. So,
that's the These are the types of things
that are really helping us.
>> Okay. How much faster? Like maybe how
many courses can you made
>> Um
>> the before and after?
>> It's hard exactly to quantify, but what
I'll tell you is this. The amount of
content we made in the first
12 years of Duolingo, it was all done by
hand, etc.
Uh over the last 2 years, we have made
50 times more content.
>> 50 times more?
>> 50 than what we did in the first 12
years. It's a lot faster.
>> Wow.
>> It just goes a lot faster.
>> Now I can maybe have a context of that
because each language is like a pair.
>> That's right. That's the problem. The
problem is that each language is a pair,
so there's a lot of pairs. Learning
English for Korean speakers.
>> Yes.
>> That was a different course than
learning English for Japanese speakers,
and that was a different course learning
English that for Spanish speakers, and
each one of them we had to make. Now,
much faster with AI and we're able to do
that.
>> Wow. I can see that maybe you can expand
faster in Chinese market since AI
development
>> That is that is a big reason why we've
expanded a lot in the Chinese market.
We're also going to be soon adding a
course for Shanghainese.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Uh which I am told by the people in this
office that will be really popular. I
wouldn't know, but the people in this
office really like that.
>> I have no idea it's going to go popular
or not.
>> really know, but I they they swear it's
going to be really popular.
>> Yesterday when I open up the app, there
is a line saying that Duolingo also
teach endangered languages like
Hawaiian.
>> Yeah.
>> Is that because of AI?
>> No, that is not because of AI, and I'll
tell you where AI It turns out that AI
is not good at endangered languages.
>> Uh-huh.
>> So, a lot of people have been asking us,
"Can you add more endangered languages
now that you have AI?" Unfortunately, AI
is not particularly good at Hawaiian
because there's just not a lot of data
to train. So, endangered languages that
is not something that we've been able to
speed up yet.
>> I see. So, it's more like a social
responsibility thing.
>> Yeah, we like we like those. We teach a
few of them. We like them. I mean,
again, one of the problems is there's
7,000 languages in the world.
There's a lot of those.
>> Have you ever thought in maybe in 10
years the real-time translation can be
quite perfect?
>> It's already I would say pretty much
perfect.
>> Yeah, then
what's the point
>> of learning a language?
>> of learning a language and what's the
point of Duolingo?
>> Uh
so, real-time translation by the way is
not just now. I would say for the last
several years, maybe about 10 years.
Real-time translation got really good
about 10 years ago. Like Google had
Google Translate and it was
pretty much perfect about 10 years ago.
In that time we have not seen the desire
to learn a language go down. It has in
fact gone up. And I think the biggest
reason is
in Duolingo we have two big groups of
people. One big group of people are
people who are learning language as a
hobby.
If it's a hobby, it doesn't matter. I
mean, similar to chess, you know,
computers have a better uh chess than
humans since 1997. And then there's
another large group of people
generally these are people who are
learning English
who actually need to learn it. So, for
example, if you're going to be a flight
attendant or if you're going to work at
a hotel, you need to learn English.
>> Because people still need to
communicate. It's not like you can wear
something and
>> Yeah, and it's a pretty interesting
thing. I mean, when you're to really
learn a language, you know, one of the
ways you know you're really good at a
language and I ask people, for example,
yesterday we were at dinner. Somebody
did not grow up in China but has been in
China for a year or two. I was asking
them how good their Chinese was and they
were trying to explain to me and I
asked, "Can you join a group
conversation?" Like if there's a lot of
people talking about it, can you join a
group conversation? And she said, "Mhm,
about half the time." And that tells me
roughly how good you are at learning a
language. But this is for example, if
you're there with like a phone trying to
join a group conversation, it kind of
doesn't work.
>> Interesting. Okay.
>> it just doesn't work. It's awkward. You
know, group conversations people are are
saying jokes, they're saying more,
they're adding, they're interrupting
each other. It's very hard even with
very good real-time translation.
So, I think that you know, if you really
want to be part of a culture, for
example, if you move to China,
you're always going to be a major
outsider if you don't know the language.
Similarly, I was just in this the CDF
the China Development Forum.
I don't know Chinese, and I had to
listen to everything with a little
thing.
>> the CEOs would do the same, right?
>> everybody. You know, the translation was
done by humans, and it was very fast,
and it was very good, but you still
couldn't quite get all the things, and
you felt Yeah, you felt like you were an
outsider, etc. So, again, if you
actually want to, you know, move to the
country or go study in the United States
or something, you you actually need to
learn a language.
>> Since you work on education a lot, what
do you think would be the future of
education because of AI? Do you think
school is going to be existing or
anything?
>> So, a couple of things to say about
that. First of all,
you know, some people worry that well,
maybe we don't need to go to school
because AI will do everybody's job.
First of all, I think that's many years
away if that if that ever happens. And
secondly,
you still need to educate people. If if
you know any 2-year-olds
that are uneducated,
they're
If humanity was like a bunch of
2-year-olds, this would not be good,
right? It's it's chaos. So, people still
need to be educated in terms of learning
values. They need to learn how to think.
Like, for example, a lot of the early
math education is just to learn how to
think. Like, you need to learn how to
count. You need to learn how to read.
People still need to be educated even
with AI. So, education will be needed.
Schools are still needed for a couple of
reasons. One,
teachers are just really good at being
role models.
It's hard for an AI to be a role model
because you're like, well, that's an AI.
I don't
>> You don't trust it.
>> Yeah, you're not just not a role model,
but I think teachers are good at role
models. Also, you know, during COVID,
kids didn't go to school. A lot of times
they stayed at home.
I don't think many parents like that.
Parents actually want their kids to go
to school.
>> want to go to school as well.
>> It's a good thing. It's a good thing to
have a place
>> Yeah, to have a place where people learn
how to be and parents can have So, I
just don't think schools are going to
disappear even with AI. I do think that
AI is going to be used more and more so
that kids learn faster, kids learn
better, etc. So, I do think that's going
to happen, but I don't think teachers or
schools are going to disappear. But,
there's one other thing that is really
important to mention.
Most people
Most people just don't like doing it.
They just are not as motivated to do it
all that much. So, one of the things
that is really important, certainly when
you talk about AI, is that it has to be
high quality. But, also we have to be
motivating enough that you come back
every day to do it.
>> Uh I think You mean the best teacher in
the future is not only teaching you the
course, but also getting you motivated
and providing some emotional value.
>> That's exactly right. Um I mean and both
are needed. If it's just a really good
teacher I mean, by the way,
yes, AI is really awesome, but if you
had a lot of motivation, the reality is
that you could learn most subjects by
yourself even
>> without a tutor.
>> Yes, you can just read a book.
>> Sure.
>> But, most people don't do that. Like,
the reality is that anybody in the
world, if you have access to a public
free library, you can probably learn
quantum physics by yourself.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> You probably can, but most people just
don't have They just not going to sit
there for 10 years doing that. So, it
really matters that you can actually
motivate people to do it. That is really
half the battle.
>> Okay.
>> And and so, that's why we're working on
that.
>> So, you're going to replace the
motivation part by gamification.
>> That's right.
>> That's what you're trying to do. Make it
addictive as TikTok.
>> I would love it if we could do that
because then you would be addicted to
something that's positive for you.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know if we're ever going to be
as addictive as TikTok, but we'll try.
That's what we're trying to do.
>> see. Good.
>> Yeah.
>> All right, I'll tell you a few things
about chess.
When
somebody proposed to add chess on
Duolingo was a few years ago. And I
said, "No, you should not add chess. I
did not want to add chess because it's a
game. And I'm like, "What Why do you
want to teach a game? I want to teach
languages. I want to teach math. I want
to teach science. Why do you want to
teach a game?" They were disappointed
and then they went away. I mean, they
had been working for the company but
they, you know, they went to do other
things. Um they they were disappointed.
Then I met with the Minister of
Education of the country I was born in.
I was born in Guatemala. I met with the
Minister of Education. She was telling
me how bad the education system is in
Guatemala. And Guatemala's a poor
country. The education system is
terrible. And she said, "It's so bad
that I am considering sending a chess
set to every student because at least
they'll learn logical thinking."
And when she said that I thought, "Mhm,
maybe we should teach chess because it
actually teaches you logical thinking."
And it turns out that there's a lot of
scientific studies that show that, of
course, the education system is
different in every country. But in the
United States, the single best thing you
can do to improve your grades, other
than, of course, studying more. If
you're not going to do that, the single
best thing you can do to increase your
grades is to do chess after school.
That's the single best thing you can do
to increase your grades. So, that's why
we decided to add chess. And I went back
to the guy who had suggested chess to me
and I said, "I changed my mind."
>> What did he say?
>> He was very happy. He's like, "Okay,
wait. Let me add chess." And then I'm
like, "Okay, well, you should add
chess." And then he said, "One problem.
I don't know how to play chess."
>> You don't know or he doesn't
>> He doesn't know how to play.
So,
he didn't know how to play chess. He
paired up with another guy who knew very
little chess.
And the two of them combined, they're
like, "We're going to add a chess
course." And I'm like, "Okay." And they
also didn't know how to program. One of
them was a designer, the other one was a
product manager. And they're like,
"Together we're going to add a chess
course." And I'm like, "Okay."
>> They learned a little bit of chess, but
not a lot. They're not very good at
chess, but they use AI to create a whole
course without an engineer. Ended up
needing an engineer to put it in the
app, but the course, like all the data
for everything, the prototypes and
everything, all was done with AI. It's
pretty incredible.
>> That's amazing.
>> Yes, and by the way, to this day, these
two guys, they're not very good at
chess.
>> Still?
>> They're not very good at chess. But what
I will say is that what is good about it
is that they made a course for chess
that makes chess accessible to people
like them.
>> Oh.
>> Uh most other chess courses were made by
chess grandmasters, and
>> It was too difficult.
>> It's really high stakes. These guys made
a chess course for people who are like
them. You know, for example, one of the
first things that if you go to the chess
course, it teaches you the names of the
pieces because these guys also had to
learn the names of the pieces. They
didn't know. For example, there's a
piece that looks like a horse. It's
called a knight.
>> Oh, okay.
>> They call it the horse. They're like,
"Where's the horse?" But it's called a
knight.
>> Oh, that makes sense. It's like you're
asking an expert to learn economic terms
to a some layman, then they just
couldn't explain very well.
>> Yes, and you know what else? When we
started Duolingo, it was me and my
co-founder Severin. Neither of us were
very good at learning languages, and
neither of us were like language lovers.
So, we also
>> you are not a language lover.
>> No, I am not. I mean, I I now have
learned a lot more about languages, and
I have learned to learn to love
languages, but when we started Duolingo,
I was not a language lover.
>> Then how did you develop a course
without AI?
>> the chess Yeah, no AI, but at least So,
we went a lot slower, but at least we
made a course that was also accessible
to people like us because the reality is
I didn't like learning languages, but
Duolingo was a course that even when I
didn't really like the process of
learning languages it kept me coming
back.
>> Oh, you think so?
>> I made a course for me as opposed to
somebody who is a major language lover.
They didn't need the gamification
because they are intrinsically
motivated. It turns out only a small
fraction of the world's population is
intrinsically motivated to learn
anything.
>> of course.
>> So again, this is this is I think this
is one of the key things about Duolingo.
We make courses for the average person
and that's why we have so many users.
>> That's nice. That's like our goal like
making videos for everybody.
>> Yes, and and that's the thing. I mean,
there's a place for the very advanced.
>> They probably don't need your app. They
can learn by themselves.
>> right. The people who are very who are
already very advanced at or or are going
to be very advanced at chess or
language, they don't need our app.
>> Yeah, the goal is actually to keep them
coming back. Yeah.
>> Yeah,
yeah. We can handle them.
>> You just went to the China Development
Forum?
>> I did. Uh it was very informative. It
was very encouraging. It seems like
China really wants to be open to foreign
investment, which is good for us because
we're a foreign company. A few years ago
when we first opened the China office,
nobody ever thought that China would
become the number one market. We
thought, "Okay, we'll we'll grow a
little bit. That'll be good." But just
every year it grows more and more and
more. And so by now it's pretty clear
that next year China will be our number
one market.
>> By the number one market, do you mean by
uh by sales or by
>> By users. So by users right now US is
one and China's two. Next year China
will surpass the US. By revenues China
right now is number four.
>> Number four.
>> I do believe that in a few years it'll
also surpass the US. Yeah.
>> Uh okay.
>> Yeah.
>> I saw a lot of crazy campaign went
viral. Like for example, you announced
Duolingo's dead in the US. And right now
Duolingo is also doing a partnership
with Meituan, the delivery app. Where
are those ideas coming from?
>> It's the local teams. Uh in this case,
the marketing team here in China is
excellent. These are all local
campaigns. In China in particular, it
really has been one of the best
countries for partnerships. It turns out
that
here brands really want to partner with
each other. And also Duolingo is seen as
a very cool brand. We've just seen
really excellent partnerships. We just
had one with QQ Music.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Um I think there's a lot more coming. I
don't think I should spoil what they
are, but there's a lot more coming that
are pretty awesome.
>> That's exciting. Two years ago you
mentioned uh the Duolingo English Test.
Any progress on that?
>> Yeah, we're very happy with the Duolingo
English Test. If you don't know what it
is, it's a test that is accepted by
6,000 different educational programs in
the world that you can take. You use it
for admissions. Historically, it's
either been TOEFL or IELTS. But now the
DET, the Duolingo English Test is
accepted by the vast majority of places
and it's cheaper. And also you can take
it online. I mean, the big progress is
that we're just accepted by a lot more
institutions. And at this point, we
don't know this for a fact, but we
believe that we have surpassed some of
the the standard older tests in terms of
number of tests taken. I'm very happy
with it. By the way, that's another
place where we use AI to prevent people
from cheating.
>> Cheat. Uh huh.
>> There's a lot of cheating attempts.
We see it all the time. People are
trying to find ways of cheating and we
we do a lot of sophisticated things. Um
and don't cheat on the DET.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> We catch you.
>> You catch you. If Duolingo is not
teaching languages only anymore, do you
think people may get impression that
it's less focused? Or Duolingo is aimed
to be a super app in education?
>> That's the aim. It's to be a super in
education. We may not teach everything,
but we'll teach at least the things that
take a long time to learn. I want to add
science.
We're not working on science yet, but I
want to add science. I want to add
drawing, you know, things that take
years to learn we want to be teaching.
>> I see.
>> I mean, generally I want to stay mostly
in education. That's That's generally
what what I want to do.
>> Do you have to approve every course?
>> Yeah, I feel like I should. My power to
add courses is not as big as you would
like as as you would think because
right after languages, the course that I
wanted to add was science. We added
math. After math, I wanted to add
science. We added music. After music, I
wanted to add science. We added chess.
So, what I want is not as as important
what I Yeah. I'm looking for somebody
inside the company is very passionate.
Yeah. As opposed to me forcing people to
do that.
>> Got you. How is the course development
process? If somebody wants to develop a
course about something and do they come
to you and you say yes or no or you have
a committee?
>> Yeah, what happens is that they usually
come to me and I I make a decision, but
they usually come with enough data to
show why it makes sense. One of the most
important things that I want to hear is
how many people in the world want to
learn this.
>> Ah.
>> Uh if if it is something that only a
million people in the world want to
learn, I don't want to do it. But if it
is something that hundreds of millions
of people, then I'm a lot more
interested. I also think it should be
something that is good for the world.
>> Since you are the founder and CEO of one
of the biggest education company in the
world, what do you think is your quality
or your traits make you successful?
>> If you're going to start a company and
you're going to run a company and run it
until it's much larger, you have to be
really committed.
You know, we've been working on Duolingo
for more than a decade. It just takes
commitment every single day. One of the
things that I think makes me successful
is I'm very committed to what we're
doing. Kind of obsessed with what we're
doing. So, I think that helps me. I
think another thing that helps me is
that I
am relatively good at putting myself in
the shoes of our users. Every single day
I try to learn all the different
subjects. I'm very bad at most things.
For example, I'm very bad at music and
I'm trying to learn music on Duolingo.
I'm not good at learning languages and
I'm trying to learn languages on
Duolingo. Of late, I'm trying to learn
Swedish because my wife is from Sweden.
Uh I'm not good at it, but that puts me
in the shoes of the users.
>> Got you.
>> Um because most people are not good at
learning language. So, I think that is
another thing that makes me good. I
think I would say those are probably the
the the two things.
>> two.
>> I mean, there's a lot of things that I
know are not good.
>> Like come on.
>> But these are the things that I know are
good. Somebody said to me that the
biggest thing about you is that you just
work harder than everybody else and that
>> Because you're committed.
>> I'm very committed. I'm very committed.
Although, I don't know if I work harder
than the people in the China office here
at Duolingo. These people work really
hard.
>> I know.
>> They they work really hard. But at least
for the Western world, I work really
hard.
>> Sounds good. Sounds good. You can't
really achieve everything with yourself
and you're having a great team. What do
you think your team is really good at
and how did you build a team like that?
>> The biggest thing that I've learned
about the executive team is it took me
years to get there. They don't give you
a headache.
If I just say, "Go fix this problem."
and I never have to think about it
again. I don't have to ask them whether
it's been solved. They will fix it and
they'll come back to me and tell me and
but I just can completely forget it.
>> It's pure trust.
>> Yes, and if I tell them, "Go fix this."
I don't have to worry about it. It will
get fixed in some some amount of time.
>> Got you. In Chinese it's called "kao
pu".
>> Kao pu?
>> Kao pu. Reliable.
>> Reliable.
>> That's that's right. That is exactly
what I reliable. It took me years to get
there with my executive team.
>> But eventually, I have a team that is
reliable.
>> How did you build a team like that? Any
secret sauce?
>> No, it just took years. I mean, you just
hire people and if it's not working, you
know,
usually when it's not working, both
parties know. And so, either they leave
or you fire them. It took some trial and
error, but at this point I'm very happy
with them, and I want to hold on to them
forever.
>> Forever, yeah.
>> Yes.
>> Do you think the ability matters more or
the chemistry between you guys matters
more?
>> As I get
older, I place more emphasis on
chemistry and loyalty.
>> Loyalty.
>> Than ability. Now, ability should be
there. If they can't do their job,
>> Yeah, it's the minimum.
>> good. You know, as you get older, it's
not that like I'm that old, but as you
get older, you start just treating
things very differently. I just at this
channel development forum, I met a an
investor who was much older. He's a
retired, in fact. Having a meeting with
somebody like that, and it's happened a
few times that I meet with somebody
who's either in, you know, maybe they're
late 70s. Those meetings are very
different than if you're having a
meeting with somebody who's 30 or 40,
because the person who's 30 or 40 is
asking you all the tiny little details
about how your company would like how
much profit do you make, and what's your
percentage of the much older people are
asking you questions like
tell me about your father.
Like that's the type of stuff they want
to know.
>> Oh.
>> And you know, as you get older, you
start realizing that's how you really
get to know people, and that ends up
mattering a lot. It gives you chemistry,
gives you like, okay, I understand you a
lot better because I know this is this
is how it is. So, I'm starting to do
stuff like that. For example, for
everybody in my executive team, I kind
of know how they grew up, and that that
tells me a lot about how they operate.
For example, I have a very close and
good relationship with our head of
product. He's an only child. I am an
only child, too. As soon as I learn he's
an only child, I'm like, I understand a
lot about you. Um he's also an immigrant
to the United States. Right there, I
understand a lot about him because I'm
also an immigrant to the United States.
So, just
as you get older, you start thinking a
lot more that way, as opposed to tell me
your numbers, tell me your metrics.
That's starting to happen to me. Again,
I'm not I'm not yet at the point where
I'm 70 years old, but I think eventually
I'll just start asking you like, do you
have children or not?
>> Oh.
>> It really helps. It really helps because
it it it it helps to see what motivates
you. You know, there are people that are
motivated by different things. Some
people are motivated by money. Some
people are motivated by mastery, like
they really want to master something.
Some people are motivated by a mission.
A lot has to do with how they grew up,
you know.
Especially in the US, there's a very big
difference between people who grew up in
the US versus people who grew up in
other countries. And especially if they
grew up in a developing country, there's
a it's a very big difference in how they
act, what they're motivated by. And both
are good. It's It's not like one is
better than the other. It's just It's
It's good for me to understand what each
person, you know, what motivates each
person.
>> That's very insightful. Also helpful to
me as well. Yeah.
>> Well, yes. I mean, it really does It's
incredible how
Yeah.
How much the the actual person and how
they grew up. This is why I was asking
yesterday in the dinner we had here how
many people here had tiger parents.
>> Ah.
>> And I'm Okay, I understand you. You had
a tiger parent. You did not have a tiger
parent.
>> That's why you behave this way. That's
understandable.
>> how much each person behaves in a
certain way, whether they have a not
just tiger parent, with anything, what
you know, the the relationship with
their parents was.
>> Wait.
Wait.